Hey what's up everyone and welcome back to another video. In this video we're going to see how we can
take a combination of Markdown and Python that looks like this and turn it into an interactive
slideshow presentation that looks like this with all sorts of cool features, code embedding,
plots being visible in the slide presentation, just a lot of cool stuff that we can see.
So we're going to start with the basics and then work our way up to all sorts of more advanced
features and functionality of Quarto slideshows using Python. Should be a lot of fun let's get
into it. All right so the first step that we're going to want to do is there's a github repo
and I'll link this in the description and as part of that github repo there's this slideshow folder
that has the files that you'll see in this this presentation and also some extra assets and logos
and all that. I'll get into the details of this in a second but I think before I even dive into
the code I think one thing that I do whenever I'm trying to build presentations in Quarto using
Python is I always just look up like Quarto reveal.js docs and I find that this page
docs slash presentation slash reveal.js is so so useful. There's this interactive slide
presentation that's there that shows a lot of this functionality that we will see in this video
and to make this more Python focused I kind of adapted some of the details that you see here
which I'll also link in the description to a more Python based visualizations but it's basically
the same as we'll see here but we'll kind of start with some basics first. Also if you've
never used Quarto before if this term sounds new to you I recommend checking out the recent Quarto
crash course that we posted which will be linked also everything's linked in the description today
link that in the description you don't need to watch that to check out this video but some of
the basics might be helpful to see in that video first before you kind of dive into some more
advanced slideshow type features. Enough talking though let's get into the code. So whenever you're
starting a presentation in Quarto I recommend creating a qmd file so we're going to create a
I'm just going to call this like slideshow.qmd file this is totally blank to start and we will
add some I guess initial yaml parameters so I'm going to open and close these three bracket or
these three dashes to specify my yaml parameters and then if I want to make this a slideshow
I have two main options so I'm going to go
format and I'm going to do reveal.js as the first option and I can add big sections like this so
section one and then I could do like slide with two pound signs a level two header I can do
slide one slide two slide three
and then I can you know insert some random text
insert some more text this is all out of order but in some some random text
a lot of fun stuff here and if I render this with Quarto so if you install the Quarto
VSCode extension and also install the Quarto CLI that's all in the crash course
linked in the description but if I preview this we see we get a little slide presentation here
I'm also going to give this a title slide so title my cool Quarto slideshow how about that
I'll give it an author which is going to be my name Keith Galley and we will go with that for
now there's other parameters you can add here but we see my cool slideshow we see our first section
we see our section headings with our text if I keep scrolling over we see the slides switch
that's all good not super fancy right now this is just markdown but where it starts getting cool is
like let's say on slide three I wanted to insert some Python code I could do something like
bracket Python
I accidentally added an extra bracket and I could do something like import matplotlib.pyplot
as plt plt.plot1234 very fun stuff I could run this
and we see on that slide three we get our plot if I also wanted to see the corresponding code
alongside that I could do echo is true and that's going to display not only
my plot but also the code I could also do other things like output location and maybe I want it
to be on a different slide so this is going to now put that graph on the next slide over
here so we go to slide three again we're going to just see the code but then on slide four we see
the graph I guess it's still part of slide three but it's just separate from the code
you can also add it as this column format
and now we look and we have our code over here and we get the graph
output on the right and I could also open this up and you know see this
so that's some of the very very basics another cool thing that you can do you don't have as much
styling functionality and like abilities but you can also if you needed to change this to pptx
make it a powerpoint presentation I re-render this what we're going to see over here is we've
been working with an html file but now we have this powerpoint file if I go ahead and
open this up on my side
we see that we do get a presentation in powerpoint format which could be very helpful if you are
working at a company that needs to use powerpoint and you want to like set up a template for your
slide presentations you don't have as much flexibility with the powerpoint format you
can look up pptx corto and learn more but I'm going to focus on this reveal.js format
because I think that's where you get the most interactivity the most benefit of really using
corto so I think to best demonstrate all of these different features and what functionality you have
available to you in this github repo that is linked in the description I think we need to
get like a linked in the description count counter on the screen or something because I've said that
probably seven times already but in that file we basically adapted that demo presentation that I
just kind of shared and we made it a little bit more python specific I'm going to remove
some parameters first and then kind of walk into some more sophisticated details
so I'm going to render this make this full screen I'll hide the files
pull this down a bit but we get this slide presentation and I think probably to show a
lot of the functionality I'll show my code over here on the left side and hopefully it is big
enough that you can see and I'll share the corresponding slide on the right side so the
title and all that is specified up here with these yaml parameters we specify that it's a real vljs
format here in the format spot and we specify some other things like slide number we see that
down at the bottom right we see we get a footer which can use the markdown syntax so I could do
this as like corto docs or something and what you'll see is that the footer changes to corto
docs down here instead of the actual url so you have flexibility with how you specify this so if
you wanted to always have like reference material you can use the footer this is what's going to be
on every single page unless it's specified otherwise and you'll see what I mean in a bit
embed resources just puts everything in a single html file versus having extra files
little nuance there but let's get into some of the actual code here all right so starting with
like hello there slide nothing crazy here I'm going to just keep walking through until we get
some more interesting things so here we can see that on these corresponding slides we just
basically animate a little bit of a difference between two python cells this and this and so
when I run these two between these two it animates the code between them but we don't see any output
part of the reason we don't see any output is because we are just using this python class
versus actually making this python code and so when we're just showing off our actual code and
we don't want anything output sometimes it's best to use this dot python syntax but if we're actually
running the code use the python syntax like that and you can actually see that it adapts in my
editor when you're using vs code to show that I can now run that cell as we go on a little bit
further other cool things you might want to do code specifically is line highlighting so as we
can see in this example we start by highlighting lines four to five and then we highlight line
seven and then we highlight line 10 and when I step through this presentation we see that that
happens I could also then put at the end you can add as many of these highlights as you want so
maybe I wanted to show one through ten I could do something like this and then at the very last
moment of this I step through step through and then the last one all all 10 lines are highlighted
we also see that we can specify separate footers than the one we specified at the top
using this footer syntax getting into some data visualization
we can see some basic matplotlib code here just as I showed in the simple example we
have output location slide here so when we actually get an output for this plot
it's going to show up on the next screen I can pop this open bigger so you can see
we also have interactive plots and for whatever reason this one's not loading right now
refresh this if it will let me just double check what's going on here
I'm going to rerun this real quick on the plotly slide
okay we see our plotly chart
I think that's the sizing is causing it a little bit of issue
so we see a little plotly graph
and you know you can interact with this I can zoom in on certain areas
I can see information on if the plotly chart and this one's below so it overruns a bit
so you could if you wanted to as we did with the
matplotlib example I could do output location as slide and then just have this fully on the next
slide and so now we see on the next slide this graph just fully by itself
that's plotly so matplotlib plotly we do other things so like one cool thing is maybe we wanted
a matplotlib visualization and we wanted to show the code but then we wanted to pop up the chart
right next to it but maybe we didn't want them to appear at the same time one thing we can do
is this column fragment
way of doing things and also worth mentioning is I've surrounded a lot of these code blocks with
this smaller class if I remove this you're going to see that the content within our slide gets
bigger so when we rerun this the code it might actually overrun and not fit in the screen
go to the next slide so you see it fills up a bit more space and I often like if I have a lot of code
passing in this smaller tag just to make things fit a bit better but we did see that with this
slide this column fragment one
it starts without the chart and then you click in and we see the animation and we see our code
because we're specifying this echo is true I could also specify just column instead of column fragment
and then when we run this they will already the sine wave and the cosine wave will already be on
the screen as you can see there and then we can also specify a column fragment and then we can
and the cosine wave will already be on the screen as you can see there so there's a bunch
of different options for this output location you also could just turn off the output you
can make this false and then just see the code and nothing else believe
yeah so now that output is even though we have output location column
that output is just not going to appear
again we can do seaborne visualization so you can do all the different visualizations you expect
we can also do things like showcase just data frames so here's a simple data frame
and I'm just passing df at the bottom of my code cell we see that tables example you can explore
different ways to visualize your table so one cool posit based live or one cool posit library is this
one cool posit library is this library called great tables which is pretty new in the python
ecosystem but using code like you see here we can generate cool charts like this cool tables
so maybe you wanted a little bit more fancy of a table within your slide presentation
as you can see the code over here that can be done with a combination of great tables
and we just display your table down here
you can also lay out things in columns so maybe you wanted a column describing your data set and
then you wanted to actually specify a table of your data we could do something like that
if if you run into the situation where your table runs off the screen there's a couple
parameters that you have access to so you have access to up here you have something called
scrollable so this will let you scroll if anything overflows you also have access to height width
margin so I could specify like maybe I wanted my width to be like 1800 and fill up more of the
screen maybe I wanted my margin to just be touching the edges of the screen I can also do
like min or max scale or something like that so it lets things scale up bigger and bigger and
I think by default that's set to two so as I dynamically resize this in an open window
I can specify different parameters
so you see no margin now when we open this I just specify that margin zero
but I also specified more space so it you know is filling up a bit a bit more of this
space and you see it runs over on both sides there so you have a lot of different controls
to play around with
I'll leave this I think I had this at like 1500 I will leave the margin as the default
so I'll leave the scale as the default as well rerun this
and we're going to see that margin reappear
you also render latex so if you had mathematical equations you want to show in your presentation
so if you had mathematical equations you want to show in your presentation you can do that
easily with corto and that can be very helpful because I feel like it can be really annoying
if you have a slide presentation and you need to show complex math what you can see here is
this is showing off the latex code that we are sharing so this is the left side of the screen
the column with 40 that's on the left side and then when we do equals text then we're
actually rendering that latex and that's how we see these more traditional mathematical
equations appear on the screen we can also do fancy things like let's see
but did I do latex equations twice in this presentation I don't think so
oh okay sorry I was getting ahead of myself we can do all sorts of cool presentation features like
incremental lists I find super helpful so by surrounding a dashed list with these
colon colon colon incremental and closing that fence div off with the same colons we can get a
list like this which I find very helpful I like when I'm doing presentations to you know say one
thing at a time and really emphasize that point that I'm talking about I think that as far as
staying focused you don't want to throw too much on the screen at once so leveraging these
incremental lists and these fragments which is another feature that you're seeing right now
can be very very helpful
so you see the fragments here when you specify a fragment with your fence div you have different
options like fading in fading up fading left you know fade in then semi out all these different
things this is all being adapted from that demo that I shared in the description link in the
description counter we're at like nine or ten at this point love it all right slide backgrounds
let's get into some more interesting things here they're all this is all interesting what am I
talking about you can specify different colors here with background and specifying a hex color
so I could do something like what's an interesting color I wish I knew hex colors off the top of my
head I feel like it's hard for me to mentally grasp that but I will pull in a hex color
hey I'll just write some random numbers we'll see what happens
let's see what color this is
yeah it's like a fun blue color
makes sense because these first two numbers are my r the second two numbers are my g and these
last two numbers or letters in this case are my b and these are the highest numbers
or letters in this case are my b and these are the highest values over here
from a hexadecimal perspective so it's the most blue so that's why we get this
slide background as the blue color but you could specify any hex color there
we also can do cool stuff with like actually having images as our background so in the folder
we have a bunch of images so you see we're using the Milky Way image as our
background right now using this background image parameter within our slide we're specifying that
but we could also do a background video or a background iframe as well
so good to know that you can you know position elements in different spots another useful thing
here is that you see these pop up in absolute position spots this can be super useful if you
need to like display you want to pop up a certain image at a certain time as you're talking about
something so we're using the absolute like values like left width height top etc to specify where
these show up but another important aspect of this is that we're specifying that these are fragments
and we can also specify the order that they appear by the fragment index so if we look
at this cat image we see we it has a fragment index equals three i think if you specify a
fragment index it's always going to come before ones that don't have any fragment index specified
so what we're going to see is this group of four kitties appear before this cute kitty that looks
like it's maybe on a sink or something so let's see that four kitties appear then kitty on the
sink appears and then other kitty appears i could very easily make this fragment index like 20 i
mean this could be any number it just it just is measuring the relative order so i could make this
three i could add a fragment index here which equals one and now what we're going to see is
this little kitty appear first then this kitty and then the four kitties so rerun this
that kitty appears first then that kitty and then finally the four kitties so that is done with
these absolute positioning and using fragment and fragment index and these images are also
in that repo they're in images and then cats so you can do all sorts of things with this
and fragment index and these images are also in that repo they're in images and then cats
so you can do all sorts of cool things i find it very very powerful to have things appear
at certain times i want to just keep walking through i'm not going to go into tons and tons
of details i think with this other stuff you can check it all out in the code whether that be
in the official docs or the more python focused qmd examples that i'm sharing as part of this
presentation i'll kind of just step through some additional things that we can do though
so we saw all of this we saw the fragments we saw these images popping up in random spots
you can do some animations you can do slide transitions like this and have tab sets so you
can have both your plot and then your data separately you can have interactive slides
which you saw with plotly but you could also add like a folium map or something
here which is pretty cool where are we right now in this map i think we're we're in eugene oregon
folium library is fun for that reason and we could do other types of slide intros so we see
a i think convey con con that con i can't let me read what i wrote concave there so that's a
concave transition you can do the zoom transition you can just fade a transition in you could do
this convex transition all sorts of slide transitions that you can have fun with so
you have a lot that you can work with within this reveal js format you can also you click alt and
zoom in on certain parts of the screen which can be helpful if you want to emphasize something
bunch of cool stuff here i think one thing that i will mention is if you press i think b i don't
know b does i'll show you you can do r to do the scroll view
there's a bunch of key syntax that we can do that is useful
okay here's some useful things this chalkboard is super useful and i don't have my chalkboard
on right now but if i added down here i'm going to take out those embed resources real quick
because if i try to add this chalkboard
let's call this true it's going to yell at me for trying to embed resources and do
the chalkboard see that so that's what it's telling me it's telling me you got to not do
it that way and so now we added this chalkboard and what's cool about this chalkboard is if i
press c basically it activates the ability for me to draw on my slides so if you're giving a lecture
this can be a very very useful tool you can also actually enter this chalkboard and so if you had
like a writing tablet tablet this might be a bit easier to see but you can write on the screen which
if you're trying to annotate trying to emphasize something very very valuable so that gets you to
the screen if you click this little button or just press i think c you can draw different things on
your screen it will not stay there and put maybe there's a control that you can oh i guess it is
dang um if you disable it i think it disappears maybe i'm wrong i think there's some controls
you have if you wanted to get rid of what you've written on your chalkboard
all right i'm going to disable the chalkboard for now
other useful things if you press e you're going to go into this and this is probably more useful
if you see it in a full screen view if i press e you're going to go into this like
view that looks like this it's just a little bit more appropriate for pdfs and then if i right
click so i pressed the key if i do print i could save this as a pdf and kind of send it just like
i would maybe a powerpoint presentation which can be very very useful if you're trying to share this
with teammates so you could output a pdf or you could send that html file if you have this embed
resources equals true i'm going to press e again to go back to that normal view
are there other things that we should talk about here
these preview links are cool option i could like click this and it will pop open another tab like
python documentation within my presentation i can exit out of that
i can hit g and type a certain slide number that i want to go to i can do m just type in
exit out of that i can hit g and type a certain slide number that i want to go to i can do m just
toggle a menu over here you can see different tools i have available in this menu this menu
is also accessible down in the bottom left i don't know if you saw but down at the bottom here there's
a color that is telling our progress so there's a progress bar that you can activate or you know
it's active by default other stuff that's available too i think one thing that i do want to
showcase is that in the most recent cordo update there's the ability to use a brand file
so i will link a link counter is that maybe 12 or 13 maybe more but i will link in the description
a good blog article about this new feature called which is a brand dot yaml file that you can
specify i will try to pop that up on the screen real quick brand yaml corto here we go basically
you can add a file that looks like this and have your own custom themes that work across not only
the reveal js format but also dashboards and html reports using corto so i recommend reading
through this as well as the blog post that i will link so this is just in the documentation
and you can see some different options that you have available to you i made a little you know i
had fun and made a little brand file for myself with a ai generated logo and all that fun stuff
i also have that in the github repo so if i open my files up i see i have brand.yaml
which specifies some different types of colors it specifies a logo specifies some like meta
information about my brand file you can play around with typography too i temporarily removed
the typography stuff but you can see with these brand.yaml files that you have access to like
playing around with different types of fonts and whatnot there's also a very useful llm prompt
somewhere in here that i saw i'll see if i can find it but basically you can like what i did
to generate my brand file was i looked at the examples that they provided and i guess here yeah
i'm going this brand yaml i looked at the oh here we go yeah so i'll share some of this information
on the brand yaml but somewhere in these docs i found an example that gave an llm prompt that
you could use to basically generate your own brand yaml file if you know some of the parameters
and i basically did that using clod and just pasting in some examples of brand files that i
found as well as pasting in some colors that i wanted and whatnot and ultimately got out you
know a brand yaml file that looks like this i'll probably add back in some of the font stuff that
i removed in the code but now if i specify in my slideshow brand is brand.yaml and we
rerun this we're going to see all sorts of cool colors that are unique to my brand
which is super creatively just using a k and g right now so we see this little logo
down here at the bottom it's in the logos folder i'll try to open this up
as you can see that's my little kg logo
but now if we look at our presentation we get this nice looking i'll pop this open full screen so you
can truly appreciate it get this nice looking blue color it can be overwritten so like on this side
it's directly the background color is overriding it but it just looks quite nice with this blue and
green and having that actual logo down there it just much more you know fits maybe a personality
or profile that you always use in any of your brand materials and it's nice too if you're
working with a team using this brand yaml file everyone can have consistent presentations across
your team so a lot of stuff to play around with with that brand yaml one thing i also
should mention is that i specified the brand yaml with it like this but if you named this
as instead just underscore brand yaml it will automatically leverage that
in your qmd files so if we go like to slideshow.qmd that very simple example we showed
we see that that also is now getting the uh branded guide and i guess i didn't even specify
branded guide and i guess i didn't even specify that this was reveal.js here
or format
so you see it has that theme too and i didn't specify brand anywhere here it just knew that
it could use this brand.yaml because it's specified with this underscore
brand yaml in a way that's just automatically understood
one final thing i might mention here is that if you are a python coder you often might work
in with jupyter notebooks or something so i could do jupyter notebook example
that's too long too long of a name example.i python notebook i could add some code here
python code i'm going to just close this out so i have more screen space
and maybe i make my first cell a markdown cell import libraries
so
import pandas as pd import numpy
as np a lot of fun stuff run that
then maybe i
plot a simple graph
so
one thing that i can do here and
plot a more sophisticated graph so i'm just making a you know standard jupyter notebook right now
plot a more sophisticated
matplotlib plot in python
i love copilot sometimes run this generate run oh why is it making it r i don't want our code right
now python code okay so we have more sophisticated plot one thing that's cool is i
similarly could add to my jupyter notebook i could add these three dashes top and bottom i
could specify the format is reveal js and i could then in my terminal run quarto render example
dot i python notebook we get this example dot html file if i open that up we see we actually get
uh you know a presentation
the uh a presentation using our jupyter notebook
and i might just actually try this one more time
i want to make this a separate cell i think it was getting mad at me for putting
both my options and my import libraries in the same cell and one thing you sometimes have to do
and one thing you sometimes have to do too is run a
quarto render example dot i python notebook but then you want to also specify this dash dash
execute parameter to make sure that the jupyter notebook actually runs
so now if i look at this example dot html
okay we get it uh in a way that we're more expecting
import libraries plot a simple graph plot a more sophisticated graph
and we can specify all the same parameters as we did before
and if i specified something like
echo is true here it's going to actually show those libraries if i do the same thing here
it's going to actually show those libraries if i do the same thing here it will actually show this
code run that again so we see our code so you can play around with this you could make a slideshow
if you are smart with how you write your jupyter notebooks you can create a slideshow just from
your jupyter notebook which can be super super useful a lot of cool stuff that you can do with
python and quarto and the combination of the two if you have any questions about any of this
let us know in the comments and maybe we can answer them with future videos
but i find it super useful to just be able to easily write my code and then basically without
much extra work just a little bit of markdown sprinkling basically have a presentation out of
that tons of cool stuff i feel like i've learned tons of features through this but i'm still
learning more every day so it's kind of like as you kind of go i think it's easier to learn more
and more but hopefully this showed a lot of the features check out the links in the description
for the docs the code and just different resources that will help you learn more
if you enjoyed this video make sure to throw it a thumbs up subscribe to the channel if you haven't
already another python and quarto video will be coming soon until then peace out